# PortfolioCM
My corpus entails songs from the heist-themed playlist 'Very Agent' (166 songs), made by Spotify user 'Jenine'. Jenine is a game designer who uses this playlist to be reminded of the heist mood when working on a heist game she's currently working on. I'm going to make the music to this game, so I've been getting into this playlist recently and would like to know what the essence of good heist music is, if there is such a thing at all. 

While there clearly are great and not-so-great heist tunes, genre doens't seem to be the determining factor; I've encountered music from several genres and several era's in the 'Very Agent' playlist (and other heist playlists), ranging accross funk, jazz, hiphop and cuban music, to mention a few. As it is the emotional quality of a genre of story that heist music tries to transmit, mood apparently overrules genre in the geographical or historical sense of the word. It would be interesting to take a look at this common denominator of 'heist mood'. Are there overarching patterns within heist music accross any or all of these genres? What ultimately makes a good heist song? 

In order to dive into this properly, the songs in the 'Very Agent' playlist can be compared as a function of genre, and as a function of decade. Any similarities and contrast that might arise from this can in turn be compared to similarities and contrasts that result from a comparison between the same genres / decades that are found when comparing music not exclusive to the style of heist. This will allow us to uncover if 'heist music' is a real thing; for example, if there are similarities found accross genres within the 'Very Agent' playlist, but not outside of it.  It should be noted that, when comparing accross decades, the use of convention as a communicative tool should be taken into account. In the same way a white lace dress has a different meaning on a wedding than on any other event, a 1950's jazz song has a different meaning in a heist movie than it has in any other setting. 

(I know this description doesn't include all the points mentioned in the canvas assignment, but I'm well over 250 words. For the feedbacker: if you feel like there are also other things that I should include, please also tell me what I should take out from what I have so far :-). ) 

